[New Sample] Create Mobile Geodatabase (#700)
Esri/arcgis-runtime-samples-java: feature_layers/create-mobile-geodatabase/README.md

# Create mobile geodatabase

Create a mobile geodatabase.

![CreateMobileGeodatabase](CreateMobileGeodatabase.png)

## Use case

A mobile geodatabase is a collection of various types of GIS datasets contained in a single file (.geodatabase) on disk that can store, query, and manage spatial and non-spatial data. Mobile geodatabases are stored in a SQLite database and can contain up to 2 TB of portable data. Users can create, edit and share mobile geodatabases across ArcGIS Pro, ArcGIS Runtime, or any SQL software. These mobile geodatabases support both viewing and editing and enable new offline editing workflows that don’t require a feature service.

For example, a user would like to track the location of their device at various intervals to generate a heat map of the most visited locations. The user can add each location as a feature to a table and generate a mobile geodatabase. The user can then instantly share the mobile geodatabase to ArcGIS Pro to generate a heat map using the recorded locations stored as a geodatabase feature table.

> ## How to use the sample

Reviewer: I think when the sample loads it would be better if the "Create Mobile Geodatabase" was greyed out. It's a bit confusing when I click to add features and I click that button, I get a notification that the geodatabase has been created successfully and saved in the directory, when it already exists and has already been created. 

I think two approaches would make this sample clearer here (it does deviate from the design but results in a more clear workflow to the user):

1. On sample start up, don't create the mobile geodatabase and don't allow interaction with the mapview. Prompt the user to click "Create Mobile Geodatabase" to create and save the mobile geodatabase. 
2. When it has been created, then allow the user to add features to the map and to view the table generated.
3. Add a new button (or change the button text of the "Create Mobile Geodatabase") that when clicked shows the Information dialog where the geodatabase is stored "Show mobile geodatabase location" or similar.

Alternatively:
1. Load the sample with the geodatabase being created and saved on start
2. Remove the button "Create Mobile Geodatabase" and just have the "View Table" button.

> Tap on the map to add a feature symbolizing the user's location. Tap "View Table" to view the contents of the geodatabase feature table. Once you have added the location points to the map, click on "Create Mobile Geodatabase" to retrieve the .geodatabase file which can then be imported into ArcGIS Pro or opened in an ArcGIS Runtime application.

Reviewer: Let's use "click" rather than "tap" here

> Tap on the map to add a feature symbolizing the user's location. Tap "View Table" to view the contents of the geodatabase feature table. Once you have added the location points to the map, click on "Create Mobile Geodatabase" to retrieve the .geodatabase file which can then be imported into ArcGIS Pro or opened in an ArcGIS Runtime application.

Reviewer: not sure we have to be so specific here about what the feature symbolises: it could be anything. We can keep it general here

```suggestion
Tap on the map to add a feature. Tap "View Table" to view the contents of the geodatabase feature table. Once you have added the features to the map, click on "Create Mobile Geodatabase" to retrieve the .geodatabase file which can then be imported into ArcGIS Pro or opened in an ArcGIS Runtime application.
```

## How it works

> 1. Create the Geodatabase from the mobile geodatabase location on file using `Geodatabase.createAsync()`.

Reviewer: I often refer back to the Java API doc to help with Java specific phrasing for the How it Works section https://developers.arcgis.com/java/api-reference/reference/com/esri/arcgisruntime/data/Geodatabase.html#createAsync(java.lang.String)

```suggestion
1. Create an empty mobile geodatabase with `Geodatabase.createAsync(String path)` and pass in a specific path as the parameter.
```

> 2. Create a new TableDescription and add the list of FieldDescriptions to the table description.

Reviewer: Any time we refer to our API class names, they should be in back ticks

```suggestion
2. Create a new `TableDescription` and add a list of new `FieldDescription`s to its collection of field descriptions with `tableDescription.getFieldDescriptions().addAll()`.
```

> 3. Create a GeodatabaseFeatureTable in the geodatabase from the TableDescription using `Geodatabase.createTableAsync()`.

Reviewer: For Java this isn't strictly true: in this step we are creating a ListenableFuture with a GeodatabaseFeatureTable. We wait for the result of that listenable future, get its result, and that result is the FeatureTable. Here I am referring back to the Java API doc to get a better sense for how we can make this clearer to the user here https://developers.arcgis.com/java/api-reference/reference/com/esri/arcgisruntime/data/Geodatabase.html#createTableAsync(com.esri.arcgisruntime.data.TableDescription)

```suggestion
3. Create a new table in the geodatabase from the table description with `geodatabase.createTableAsync()`.  Once the listenable future has completed, get the newly created geodatabase feature table with `geodatabaseFeatureTableFuture.get()`.
```

> 4. Create a feature on the selected map point using `GeodatabaseFeatureTable.createFeature(featureAttributes, normalizedMapPoint)`.

Reviewer: including the parameters in here can make readability a bit difficult and makes it very specific to the code rather than keeping the "How it works" section general, which is what we're aiming for: instead we can plain english those parameters a little and the user will refer to the code to see the details
```suggestion
4. Create a feature on the selected map point using `geodatabaseFeatureTable.createFeature()`, passing a map of feature attributes and a geometry as parameters.
```

> 5. Add the feature to the table using `GeodatabaseFeatureTable.addFeatureAsync(feature)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add the feature to the table using `geodatabaseFeatureTable.addFeatureAsync(feature)`.
```

> 6. Each feature added to the GeodatabaseFeatureTable is committed to the mobile geodatabase file.

Reviewer: since we have mentioned geodatabase feature table before now, we can plain english it here (that's a general rule to follow: if it's been "instantiated" in the How it works before, it's ok to refer to it either as plain english in the text or in camel case as a variable in code back ticks).

```suggestion
6. Each feature added to the GeodatabaseFeatureTable is committed to the mobile geodatabase file.
```
```suggestion
6. Each feature added to the geodatabase feature table is committed to the mobile geodatabase file.
```

> 7. Close the mobile geodatabase to save the ".geodatabase" file using `Geodatabase.close()`.

Reviewer: wondering if this is strictly true looking at the Java API doc
https://developers.arcgis.com/java/api-reference/reference/com/esri/arcgisruntime/data/Geodatabase.html#close()

When features are added, that is "saving" those features to the geodatabase. When the geodatabase is closed, it's just ensuring it's safe to delete or move the geodatabase without compromising the data you are working with. 

The design has the following which works, but since for Java we're not going into the share workflow as Android is, let's keep it at an overview level

"Close the mobile geodatabase to safely share the ".geodatabase" file using Geodatabase.close()"

```suggestion
7. Close the mobile geodatabase with `geodatabase.close()`.
```

## Relevant API

* ArcGISFeature
* FeatureLayer

> * FeatureTable

Reviewer: we don't use FeatureTable in the sample, let's remove this (we're just using geodatabase feature table). feature table is used as a tag below so will come up in search results anyway

* FieldDescription
* Geodatabase
* GeodatabaseFeatureTable
* TableDescription

> 

Reviewer: we're missing the additional information section here from the design

## Tags

> arcgis feature, arcgis pro, database, feature, feature layer, feature table, field description, geodatabase, geodatabase feature table, mobile geodatabase, sqlite, table description

Reviewer: there are a number of additional tags in here compared with the design, and a lot are plain english version of the relevant APIs so aren't serving an additional search functionality purpose: I don't think we need all of these, let's stick with the design here

```suggestion
arcgis pro, database, feature, feature table, geodatabase, mobile geodatabase, sqlite
```

For example, a user would like to track the location of their device at various intervals to generate a heat map of the most visited locations. The user can add each location as a feature to a table and generate a mobile geodatabase. The user can then instantly share the mobile geodatabase to ArcGIS Pro to generate a heat map using the recorded locations stored as a geodatabase feature table.

## How to use the sample

Click on the map to add a feature. Click "View Table" to view the contents of the geodatabase feature table. Once you have added the features to the map, click on "Create Geodatabase" to create, save, and retrieve the .geodatabase file which can then be imported into ArcGIS Pro or opened in an ArcGIS Runtime application.

> 

Reviewer: this description needs updating now we have a slightly new workflow for the sample

## How to use the sample

> Click on "Create mobile geodatabase" to create the geodatabase and its feature table. Click on the map to add new features to the geodatabase. Click "View Table" to view the contents of the geodatabase feature table. Once you have added the features to the map, click on "Close Geodatabase" to save the .geodatabase file which can then be imported into ArcGIS Pro or opened in an ArcGIS Runtime application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click "Create geodatabase" to create the geodatabase and its feature table. Click on the map to add new features to the geodatabase. Click "View Table" to view the contents of the geodatabase feature table. Once you have added the features to the map, click on "Close Geodatabase" to save the .geodatabase file which can then be imported into ArcGIS Pro or opened in an ArcGIS Runtime application.
```
